feat(stepfunctions): custom state as an escape hatch (#7792)
aws/aws-cdk: packages/@aws-cdk/aws-stepfunctions/README.md

* [`Succeed`](#succeed)
* [`Fail`](#fail)
* [`Map`](#map)

> * [`Custom`](#custom)

Reviewer: CustomState?

Author: yep, good catch!

I honestly went back and forth between `Custom` and `CustomState` - although the rest of the states aren't suffixed, i went with it because it felt really weird to do `new Custom`

> * [`CustomState`](#customstate)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [`Custom State`](#custom-state)
```

map.iterator(new stepfunctions.Pass(this, 'Pass State'));
```

> ### CustomState

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Custom State
```

It's possible that the high-level constructs for the states or `stepfunctions-tasks` do not have
the states or service integrations you are looking for. The primary reasons for this lack of
functionality are:

> * A [service integration](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/step-functions/latest/dg/concepts-service-integrations.html) is available through Amazon States Langauge, but there are no Construct
>   classes for them

Reviewer 2: Use lower case 'construct' everywhere.

```suggestion
* A [service integration](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/step-functions/latest/dg/concepts-service-integrations.html) is available through Amazon States Langauge, but not available as construct
  classes in the CDK.
```

map.iterator(new stepfunctions.Pass(this, 'Pass State'));
```

### Custom

It's possible that the high-level constructs for the states or `stepfunctions-tasks` do not have
the states or service integrations you are looking for. The primary reasons for this lack of
functionality are:

* A [service integration](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/step-functions/latest/dg/concepts-service-integrations.html) is available through Amazon States Langauge, but there are no Construct
  classes for them
* The state or state properties are available through Step Functions, but are not configurable
  through constructs

If a feature is not available, a `CustomState` can be used to supply any Amazon States Language
JSON-based object as the state definition.

[Code Snippets](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/step-functions/latest/dg/tutorial-code-snippet.html#tutorial-code-snippet-1) are available and can be plugged in as the state definition.

All of the state properties will be embedded in the JSON that defines it. Custom states can be

> chained together and used like any other state. The `toStateJson` API returns the state JSON

Reviewer: toStateJson is a private API between the State Machine and the State. Don't advertise it.

Author: gotcha, should we be marking it `@internal` or something similar?

Reviewer: Too late for that.

that was supplied when creating the custom state without any modification.

Custom states can be chained together with any of the other states to create the state machine
definition. You will also need to provide any permissions that are required to the `role` that
the State Machine uses.

The following example uses the `DynamoDB` service integration to insert data into a DynamoDB table.

```ts
import * as ddb from '@aws-cdk/aws-dynamodb';
import * as cdk from '@aws-cdk/core';
import * as sfn from '@aws-cdk/aws-stepfunctions';

// create a table
const table = new ddb.Table(this, 'montable', {
  partitionKey: {
    name: 'id',
    type: ddb.AttributeType.STRING,
  },
});

const finalStatus = new sfn.Pass(stack, 'final step');

// States language JSON to put an item into DynamoDB
// snippet generated from https://docs.aws.amazon.com/step-functions/latest/dg/tutorial-code-snippet.html#tutorial-code-snippet-1
const stateJson = {
  Type: 'Task',
  Resource: 'arn:aws:states:::dynamodb:putItem',
  Parameters: {
    TableName: table.tableName,
    Item: {
      id: {
        S: 'MyEntry',
      },
    },
  },
  ResultPath: null,

>   Next: finalStatus.id,

Reviewer: The `Next` is not necessary, right?

Reviewer: Will we honor the `null`? Do you have a test for that?

Author: it's not necessary, we do honor the `null`. I included it in the integ test I believe but happy to add it elsewhere

Reviewer: By the way `null` is not going to work when used from Java/Python/C#. `null` and `undefined` are treated the same across the jsii interface.

This is actually a problem waiting to happen :(

Reviewer: Also my comment about `Next`.
